Git is a distributed version control,
which is much different,
at one point in time, we used to have
a centralized version control system.
Which meant that I would check out file A,
and if I happened to go on vacation,
you could just never edit file A, that was
mine, it's mine until I check it back in.
And this is most people's,
development style up until till we
started having distributed versions,
the thing that's awesome about git,
is that you have your version.
Your version doesn't have to represent
the reality of some remote version.
It's just your version until you wish
to update it till you wish to sync and
so that's what makes git so dang good.
In git,
there's kind of two levels of commands,
there's the porcelain commands and
then the plumbing commands.
We're gonna go over mostly
porcelain commands, but
we will get down to the plumbing.
We will kind of try to understand how git
works and hopefully the big takeaway from
this course is that you understand
how gits data structure works.
So that way you don't feel
confused when you use it.
When you use rebase or you revert or
you cherry-pick any of those things,
you understand how these things work,
and therefore it's simple,
nothing hard about it.
Some key terms I'm gonna
use the term repo,
a repo simply means
a project rocked by git.
It's a folder or I use folder
because I grew up with windows,
that's just how it works.
It's a directory,
some people call it a directory and
are offended when I use the term folder.
Either way,
you'll see me use those two terms, but
a repo is just simply something
with a git folder in it.
That means it's being tracked actively by
git, and if you're on windows, I don't
know exactly how it looks if you're
on just actual windows, not WSL 2.
And so I assume, it's probably the same
thing, some sort of hidden folder that
exists on Windows that tracks
all your stuff, I don't know.
A commit is just simply a point in time
representing the project in its entirety.
Now, for those that are somewhat familiar
with Git, that might be a bit surprising.
You probably think that
it stores differentials,
it's here's from one change to the next.
No, every single commit is
the entirety of the code base, and
it can be regenerated from that one and
single commit.
So kind of always a little bit of a
shocker, and commits are often denoted by
a 40 character, a through f, zero
through nine hexadecimal kind of string.
And that's going to be based off
the contents of the change, the author,
the time, everything.
I'll often use the term index, this can be
kind of interchangeably used with staging.
Staging is the area in which you prepare
the changes you wish to commit, and
when you commit, anything in the staging
area or the index will be committed.
So if you have unstaged items, they
won't be committed, they'll remain red.
That's why you can kind of pick one
file to commit not the other one,
it's because there is a staging area.
I will probably toss out the term squash
at some point, which really means to take
a commit or to take two commits and
turn it into one commit.
That's squashing by one level,
you can take N commits and
turn it into N minus one or less commits,
that'd be an act of squashing.
If I say the term work tree, working tree,
main working tree, this is your git repo.
You'll see it a lot in the documentation,
this term working tree all the time.
Working tree is just the fancy term for
your stuff,
it's what is being tracked by git and
has some sort of history in it.
I'll use the term untracked, staged and
tracked, I could use effectively,
let's go to ExcaliDraw for a quick second.
But the easiest way to kinda describe it
is that at some point when you're using
git, there exists all of your files,
right?
You haven't done anything,
you haven't added it,
this is the untracked kind of region.
Then at some point, you're going to
want to start tracking them, and so
you track them by adding
them to the index.
And so that's why when I say staging,
this is what I mean by that,
let me get a better color, let's call,
I guess brown, we'll go with brown,
that's a pretty nice color.
So this is your staging area, staging
is just simply git being ready, and
this is always every single
flow you'll ever have.
You'll have some sort of untracked
file that becomes staging, and
then once it becomes staging.
It's gonna go one more
time when you commit and
then it's fully tracked by
git with a history, and so
it's kind of a three-step process
anytime you're using git.
And so if you don't have this
kind of picture in your head,
I think you'll find git
to be more difficult.
You have not tracked I'm tracking, but
I'm not committed, I'm committed, and
long as you kind of look at it
in that way, it will make sense.
And once you've added a file,
then you get new possibilities because
git knows that it already exists.
So when you add a change, you're in
this tracked, but not staged cycle,
makes things a little bit easier to
kind of think about if you just always
keep that picture in your head.
All right, and then let's see, yeah, we've
already talked about all three of those,
so fantastic.
Some key facts about git is
that git is an acyclic graph,
if you don't know what an acyclic graph,
take free data structures course
on frontend masters, am I right?
Everybody frontendmasters.com/courses/algorithms you may have
heard of it, it's pretty fantastic. In git, every commit is a node in the graph.
And each pointer is a child-parent
relationship, meaning that you can have
more than one parent, but
you cannot have a cycle in the graph.
I wouldn't even know how you would commit
a cycle in the graph, it just doesn't
make any sense, if you delete untracked
files, they are just lost forever.
That is your bad,
there's that hilarious Github post where
someone yells about losing 5,000 files.
Because they didn't realize that if
you don't have something tracked,
it will go bye bye forever.
So make sure you know that about Git if
you delete a file, that could be it, bye.
Second, always, man git dash, start there,
read the friendly manual,
most of it's pretty good.
Some of it still sucks, I actually don't
even understand when I read a man git-tag.
I still don't really know what's happening
when I read it, it's kind of just it's It
feels strange to read, so
sometimes you gotta go on the internet.
But for the most part, it's pretty good,
I know that a lot of you probably
just have these five commands.
So this is kind of the typical git
experience, push, pull, add, commit and
status.
Everything else mysterious and
painful. In this course,
my goal is either you have zero
knowledge or around that knowledge.
And we want to take it a step further to
where you can use most features of git
easily.
The reality is if you're comfortable with
rebase, rerere, ref-log, log, cat file,
config and reset,
this course might not be for you.
Just real talk, if you're already
pretty that far into git,
I don't think you're going to
get a whole bunch out of this.
And so, I don't want you to get your hopes
up that we're actually going to be making
git, we're gonna be going over it and
making you practically useful.
Because the hardest part about working on
a job is usually never the code itself,
it's the poor decisions you've
made in the past about the code.
And then second, working with some sort
of version control with everybody else.
So once you get past that first part about
you being a bad programmer, don't worry,
I'm a bad programmer too
we're all bad programmers.
But after that it's just being able to be
effective with 40 people all committing to
one code base, and
there's a lot of strategy there.
And the worst part is when you have to
revert and no one has a git policy and
it becomes impossible to revert
your change due to merge commits.
How many different little tiny
commits that are all interweaved and
it becomes a nightmare, so
we're gonna hopefully have some sort
of sense about git by the end of this.